- [Narrator] The spring framework provides built-in support
for scheduling of tasks that
can be used to schedule a spring batch job.
Scheduling within the Spring framework
can be achieved using an annotation-based approach
that requires minimal configuration.
Let's take a look at adding scheduling
of our batch job with the spring framework.
For this lesson, I've built a very simple job
that is able to output the time the job has ran.
You'll notice that we kick off the job,
similar to the others we've built throughout the course,
by creating a job Bean, creating a step Bean,
and in this case our step is a tasklet.
So, with that in place, we can get started
with our scheduling configuration.
And, to do that, we're going to add an annotation,
provided by Spring Boot,
and that's the enable scheduling annotation.
And that's applied to our class,
and that will enable some auto-configuration
within Spring Boot,
that will support the framework scheduling.
Now, the next thing that we need to do
is configure Spring Boot not to launch our jobs
when we execute our Jar.
So, to do that, we need to provide a property
within our application.properties file.
And that property is spring.batch.job.enabled,
and then we just set it to false.
And this will cause Spring Boot not to launch our jobs
upon the initial bootstrap of the application.
Okay, so let's go ahead and close that.
And then we're going to head back over to our job config,
and within this configuration,
we need to auto-wire another dependency.
So, we're going to add a job launcher,
so this is part of the batch framework.
And we're going to name this job launcher "jobLauncher,"
and this object is going to be used to kick off
our job within a method that we're going to declare.
It's going to be named "runJob,"
and it has a return type of "void."
And on this run job method,
here's where we can apply our scheduling.
So, to do that, we're going to use the scheduled annotation.
And if we take a look at the elements on that annotation,
you'll see that we can specify a CRON expression
that is a UNIX-like scheduler.
So, for our CRON, we're going to
execute the job every thirty seconds.
So, we can specify that by adding the configuration 0/30.
And then after that, we're just going to add five asterisks
separated by spaces,
and that will cause the job to be triggered
every 30 seconds by this KRON expression.
Now, we're also going to be passing
parameters to our job.
So, we're going to use a job parameters builder.
So, I'm going to go ahead and create that object.
I'll just call it "paramBuilder."
And then, we use the new operator
and the constructor to create that.
Now, using the job parameters builder,
we are able to then create parameters for our job.
And these are going to be job parameters.
So using the add date method, I'm able to build a runtime
job parameter, and I'm simply going to assign that
the value of a date object.
So that will give it the current date and time,
and then we need to import java.util.date.
At this point, we're able to then kick off
our job, using our job launcher.
So, let's invoke the run method on the job launcher,
which it uses to launch a job.
And then, you'll remember that
our job Bean was found within the job method.
And then, we take our parameter builder,
and simply invoke the two job parameters method.
And that will cause our job parameters
to be passed into the job launcher's run method.
And then, we're going to have to add
some exceptions that will be thrown
by the job launcher in the event of an error.
Okay, so let's go ahead and
save this scheduling configuration,
and then we're going to navigate over to the terminal,
and use our script to run the job.
So, there we see the job has started,
but we have not launched it.
And there, we hit our CRON,
you can see, at the minute mark there, we ran the job.
And now, in another 30 seconds,
the scheduler is going to trigger the job,
and the job launcher will execute it once again.
And, there was that second execution at the 30 second mark,
we can see.
So, in this lesson, we saw a simple approach
to scheduling using Spring's built-in scheduling support.
All we needed to do was add a simple annotation
to a method that kicked off our job via a job launcher.